Our implementation works great, but it could be better,
so let's see how we can make it better.
Loading a JSON file and populating Mongo from within our
test classes has a couple limitations.
First, our test class is responsible for loading our JSON file into MongoDB.
While this works,
it's not ideal to replicate this code across all of our Mongo test instances.
Second, the current implementation only supports a single JSON file.
BeforeEach is called before each test class,
so if we wanted to load a different JSON file into Mongo for different tests,
the implementation would get messy.
JUnit5 allows us to build custom extensions that can
subscribe to its lifecycle notifications.
In our case,
we're interested in being called before each test
runs and after each test completes.
The BeforeEachCallback interface defines a method called
BeforeEach that's called before each test runs.
We can use this to load an arbitrary JSON file into MongoDB.
The AfterEachCallback interface defines a method called
AfterEach that's called after each test completes.
We can use this to clean up the collection used by the test.
We're going to create a new JUnit 5 extension class called
MongoSpringExtension that implements the BeforeEachCallback and
AfterEachCallback interfaces and implements their corresponding methods.
These methods are passed an ExtensionContext,
which provides access to the test class and the test
method that's currently running.
We're going to require our test class to provide a getMongoTemplate
method that provides access to the autowire mongoTemplate instance so
that we can interact with the database,
and we're going to use reflection to invoke that method and
retrieve the current mongoTemplate in our extension.
We're also going to define a new annotation called MongoDataFile
that allows us to specify the JSON file to load,
the type of class that Jackson's ObjectMapper
should use to deserialize the JSON,
and the name of the MongoDB collection that's hosting the data.
The extension will use this information to populate the database before the
test runs and drop the collection after the test completes.
The new test class looks like this: It's annotated
with the ExtendWith annotation, specifying our custom extension.
It provides a getMongoTemplate method,
and the test cases are annotated with the new MongoDataFile annotation.
It's a little bit of work,
but it'll make our Mongo test classes look a lot more elegant
and will afford us the flexibility to allow different test
methods to use different JSON files.
Now let's take a look at the MongoSpringExtension class,
the MongoDataFile annotation, and the revised version of our test class.
Let's begin by looking at the MongoDataFile annotation.
It defines three fields: Value contains the name of the JSON file to load,
classType defines the Mongo document class to load from the JSON file,
such as the review class,
and collectionName defines the name of the
collection that hosts the Mongo document,
namely, reviews.
The MongoSpringExtension class is where all the fun happens.
It implements the BeforeEachCallback and AfterEachCallback
interfaces so JUnit will execute our BeforeEach and AfterEach
methods before and after each test case.
We define a JSON path variable that references the root
directory where we expect our JSON files to exist,
namely, src/test/resources/data,
then we create a Jackson ObjectMapper to use in our JSON deserialization.
Our BeforeEach and AfterEach methods are dependent
on the getMongoTemplate method, so let's look at that first.
The extension context provides us access to both the test class
and the instance of that running test class.
We retrieve the test class by invoking its getTestClass method,
which returns that class wrapped in an Optional.
From that class,
we attempt to retrieve its getMongoTemplate method by
calling the class's getMethod method.
We then get the test instance by calling the extension
context's getTestInstance method,
and finally we invoke the getMongoTemplate method on the
testInstance and return the response as a MongoTemplate.
This is a bit of ugly reflection code,
but the end result is that we invoke the
getMongoTemplate method provided by the test class.
The BeforeEach method begins by retrieving the test method from the
extension context by calling its getTestMethod method.
If it's present,
then we retrieve the MongoDataFile annotation by calling
that method's getAnnotation method,
passing a reference to the MongoDataFile.class annotation.
It then retrieves the MongoTemplate,
and then executes the same JSON loading code that we
previously wrote in our tests.
We call the ObjectMapper's readValue method,
passing it the file to read,
which is constructed by calling the JSON_PATH.resolve method,
appending the value returned by the MongoDataFiles value,
and calling its toFind method, and we also pass the type of Java Object to load.
When we wrote this code by hand, we passed in review array.class,
but doing this generically is a little more complicated.
We use the ObjectMapper's getTypeFactory methods,
constructCollectionType method,
passing it two parameters: a list class and the class type
returned by the MongoDataFile's classType method.
Essentially,
this is telling the ObjectMapper that we want to read a list of the class types,
such as a list of reviews.
Finally,
we iterate over the returned lists and pass each object
to the mongoTemplate's save method.
This is the same thing that we did in the last example,
but written a little more generically and driven by the
values in the MongoDataFile annotation.
The AfterEach method retrieves the test method,
retrieves its MongoDataFile annotation, retrieves the MongoTemplate,
and then drops the collection defined by the
MongoDataFile's collection attribute.
The code is a little ugly, but thankfully we only need to write it once.
Now let's look at our revised test class.
Our new test class is annotated with the ExtendWith annotation,
specifying our new custom extension, and it provides a getMongoTemplate method.
With these two prerequisites out of the way,
our tests are now fully in control of Mongo.
Each test method is annotated with the MongoDataFile annotation,
specifying the name of the sample JSON file,
the type of document that should be loaded from that JSON file,
and the name of the collection hosting those documents.
The contents of each test method are the same as we previously wrote.
Just for fun, I created a new sample6.json file that contains 6 reviews,
and a new testFindAll6 method that loads the JSON file and
validates that in fact it has 6 reviews.
Use of this custom extension is completely optional.
You're free to import data from within each test class,
but externalizing the JSON loading to a custom extension and
specifying its behavior in an annotation makes the solution
more elegant and more flexible.
And there are plenty of enhancements that you can make on your own,
such as optionally dropping a collection or caching the objects
loaded from a JSON file based on its file name. It's just a starting point for your own projects.